# About the Catalyst Property Database

### Purpose: Using Data to Accelerate Catalyst R&D <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

The Catalyst Property Database (CPD) was developed as part of the [ChemCatBio](https://chemcatbio.org) Data Hub project, which aims to accelerate the catalyst and process development cycle by developing transformational tools for prediction and collaboration in catalyst R&D. The CPD is a free and public resource released in September 2020. The CPD was designed in response to the observation that when data, such as computed reaction energetics, is used in catalyst design, it is almost always generated by the researchers seeking to use it, even if similar data has been published previously. One barrier to data reuse that results in this duplication of effort is the difficult process of finding and applying published data, which can be slow, error-prone, and manual. The CPD seeks to overcome these challenges by creating a centralized, searchable database of quality catalyst property data. At present, the CPD contains computed adsorption energies for intermediates along catalytic pathways. Development of the CPD is ongoing, with a focus on external users and meeting their requirements. A batch upload capability, training and curation procedures, user interviews, and a demonstration of the CPD’s utility in accelerating catalyst research are planned. Overall, the Data Hub project and CPD aim to reduce the time and cost of catalyst research by harnessing the power of data in catalyst discovery.
